.TH COPA 1 "May 2026" "copa 0.1.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
copa \- DNF5-style Fedora Copr Package Assistant
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B copa
[\fIOPTIONS\fR] \fICOMMAND\fR [\fIARGS\fR...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBcopa\fR is a Copr package assistant for the Fedora / DNF5 ecosystem, providing a search and install experience similar to paru/yay on Arch, but with DNF-style command format.
.PP
Supported package sources:
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
Fedora official repos
.IP \(bu 2
RPM Fusion
.IP \(bu 2
Terra
.IP \(bu 2
Copr (Fedora community build service)
.IP \(bu 2
openSUSE OBS (cross-distro build service)
.RE
.SH GLOBAL OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-V, \-\-version
Show version and exit.
.TP
.B \-\-json
Output in JSON format.
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Show help message and exit.
.SH COMMANDS
.SS search
Search Copr and OBS by default. OBS is searched only when available. Add \-\-include\-local\-repo to also search Fedora, RPM Fusion, and Terra.
.PP
.RS
.B copa search
[\fIOPTIONS\fR] \fIKEYWORD\fR [\fIKEYWORD\fR...]
.RE
.PP
Options:
.TP
.B \-\-include\-local\-repo
Also search Fedora, RPM Fusion, and Terra.
.TP
.B \-\-official\-only
Search Fedora official repos only.
.TP
.B \-\-rpmfusion\-only
Search RPM Fusion only.
.TP
.B \-\-copr\-only
Search Copr only.
.TP
.B \-\-obs\-only
Search OBS only.
.TP
.B \-\-no\-obs
Skip OBS search.
.PP
Multiple keywords use AND logic (all words must match).
.SS install
Install a package.
.PP
.RS
.B copa install
[\fIOPTIONS\fR] \fIPACKAGE\fR
.RE
.PP
Options:
.TP
.B \-\-official\-only
Install from Fedora official repos only.
.TP
.B \-\-rpmfusion\-only
Install from RPM Fusion only.
.TP
.B \-\-copr\-only
Install from Copr only.
.TP
.BI \-\-copr\  OWNER/PROJECT
Use specified Copr repo.
.TP
.B \-\-obs\-only
Install from OBS only.
.TP
.B \-\-no\-obs
Skip OBS search.
.TP
.B \-\-allow\-obs\-fallback
Allow OBS version fallback.
.TP
.B \-\-keep\-copr
Keep Copr repo after install.
.TP
.B \-\-dry\-run
Show operations without executing.
.TP
.B \-y, \-\-assumeyes
Auto confirm.
.SS info
Show package information.
.PP
.RS
.B copa info
\fIPACKAGE\fR
.RE
.SS list
List packages or repos.
.PP
.RS
.B copa list
[\fI\-\-packages\fR \fIOWNER/PROJECT\fR]
.RE
.SS repo
Manage third-party repos (Copr/OBS).
.PP
.RS
.B copa repo list
.RS
List all third-party repos.
.RE
.PP
.B copa repo enable
\fIREPO\fR
.RS
Enable repo. Format: \fBcopr:owner/project\fR or \fBobs:project\fR.
.RE
.PP
.B copa repo disable
\fIREPO\fR
.RS
Disable repo.
.RE
.PP
.B copa repo remove
\fIREPO\fR
.RS
Remove repo.
.RE
.RE
.SS doctor
Check system environment and dependencies.
.PP
.RS
.B copa doctor
.RE
.SS audit
Audit enabled repos for issues.
.PP
.RS
.B copa audit
.RE
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B copa search ghostty
Search for ghostty in Copr and OBS.
.TP
.B copa search \-\-include\-local\-repo ghostty
Search for ghostty in Copr, OBS, and local repos.
.TP
.B copa search ghostty terminal
Search for packages matching both "ghostty" and "terminal".
.TP
.B copa install ghostty
Install ghostty interactively.
.TP
.B copa install \-\-copr rivenirvana/ghostty ghostty
Install ghostty from specified Copr repo.
.TP
.B copa install \-\-dry\-run ghostty
Preview installation without executing.
.TP
.B copa repo list
List all third-party repos.
.TP
.B copa repo disable copr:owner/project
Disable a Copr repo.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.config/copa/config.toml
User configuration file.
.TP
.I ~/.local/share/copa/state.json
State file recording repos managed by copa.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success.
.TP
.B 1
Error.
.TP
.B 130
Interrupted by user (Ctrl+C).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR dnf (8),
.BR dnf5 (8),
.BR copr\-cli (1),
.BR osc (1)
.SH AUTHORS
copa contributors.
.SH LICENSE
GPL-2.0-or-later
